---
title: L15 - Design That Matters
layout: doc
---

# Response to Matthew's Blog

[Matthew's Blog](https://msequeir.github.io/portfolio-msequeir/blogs/blog4.html)

Matthew mentioned two interesting points I wanted to address. The first point is making "a company that truly does prioritize all of its stakeholders." In fact, is this really possible? When Lyel asked us to consider in pairs the tradeoff that comes with using biodegradable soda holder rings, several tradeoffs came to mind. Switching to biodegradable rings makes the planet happier by reducing plastic pollution, but shareholders might be hesitant to invest in this effort due to the costs and potential impact on profit margins. Environmentally conscious customers would likely appreciate and feel more loyal to a brand that uses biodegradable rings, but cost-conscious customers might be unhappy if this shift results in higher prices for the same product. The government may support this move, seeing it as aligning with policies aimed at reducing plastic waste, but waste management facilities may need new processes or infrastructure to handle biodegradable waste properly. From these examples, we can see that when one stakeholder gains in one aspect, another stakeholder loses in a separate aspect. It's impossible to make everyone pleased about your design or your product. The second point is that "it is extremely hard to control what users post especially if these companies want their apps to become wildly successful as many of them have." Regardless of what a designer's intent may be, there are always outlier users who manage to introduce a purpose that was not intended nor considered, as exemplified by the two children playing in a box. This ties back to our VSD lecture and the idea of indirect stakeholders. Snapchat was designed for users to send temporary, disappearing messages and photos. However, users discovered ways to take screenshots so the company had to add features to notify users of screenshots, which users still managed to bypass. Minecraft and Terraria are both games for entertainment, but players managed to use it to build things like a [CPU](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FDiapbD0Xfg&t=219s&pp=ygUSbWluZWNyYWZ0IGNvbXB1dGVy) and a [32-bit computer](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zXPiqk0-zDY&pp=ygUMdGVycmFyaWEgY3B1). These examples are more positive use alternatives, but there's definitely many malicious use alternatives of apps and products that a designer can't completely control. Despite all of these concerns revolving around different stakeholders, it's important to be yourself and let your own values guide you rather than some external entity.