---
title: Assignment 1
layout: doc
---

# Social Media Needfinding

<a href = "../a1_plan_notes">Interview Planning & Notes</a>

## Interview Report 1
The first interviewee was an MIT alumnus based in New York in a long-distance relationship with another MIT alumnus based in California. The interviewee expressed initial feelings of excitement for their new career opportunities but also fear of how the distance would affect their relationship. Having become used to seeing each other almost daily at MIT, the inability to simply walk over to her place and unwind like they used to was a huge transition. A typical day apart included exchanging "good morning" messages to begin the day and "good night" messages before going to bed, updating on little things like the meals they had, and sending random messages throughout the day, such as interesting occurrences at work or seeing/experiencing something that reminds them of each other. Granted they had more leisure time, typically on the weekends, they would engage in activities together on call, such as buying the same ingredients to cook and eat together, watching a movie, playing games, or just casually staying on call with each other’s company. All of these interactions happened on Facebook Messenger.

A particularly memorable anecdote was when the interviewee described an anniversary spent apart, where they shared a playlist of meaningful songs, unboxed gifts on camera, and relived past memories through photos. “Photos have been very helpful because we’re both looking at the same thing and are vicariously in that shared moment although we’re thousands of miles apart.” Following this, they started doing a monthly “memory recap”, which involved spending a call reminiscing about a fun memory they shared in person, whether it’s a trip they took together or something as simple as a day they spent at MIT, or sharing stories on photos taken recently. During the interview, one behavior that stood out was how the interviewee seemed to toggle between moments of lightness and visible tension. For instance, he frequently smiled and laughed and made eye contact when describing some of the routines they’ve developed, like their virtual date nights or sending spontaneous updates throughout the day. It was clear that these habits brought them comfort and joy, and he was eager to share those moments. However, he became more fidgety, cracking his knuckles or rubbing his hands together, and looked down as to avoid eye contact whenever the conversation touched on the more difficult aspects of the long distance relationship.


## Interview Report 2
The second interviewee was a middle-aged woman who migrated to the US for better opportunities to support herself and her family, leaving her family in China. The interviewee expressed initial feelings of isolation and expressed that conversations with family and friends back home felt more concise and focused rather than nonchalant and carefree. She relied mostly on voice messages and video calls through WeChat since her parents weren’t very tech-savvy, so it was challenging to use a keyboard. One way she was updated on the people back home was through WeChat moments, a feature similar to Instagram posts. Another way was through videos and images of family gatherings, meals, or random moments shared in group chats. However, she felt disconnected for being unable to be present at people’s birthdays, marriages, and newborn celebrations. Sometimes, she may not even be notified of these joyful events since she usually didn’t receive invitations due to the distance. Even when someone’s sick or going through tough times, it was difficult to offer support and comfort through the screen. One particular event she felt extremely bad about was not being at her nephew’s 100 day party, which is an important milestone for newborns in Chinese culture. Always experiencing events secondhand through photos evoked a sense of loss, guilt, and sadness, sometimes even making her feel like an outsider. 

Despite having been away from China for so long, she actively engages in Chinese culture and holidays. She has tried her best to strengthen her virtual presence by participating in events digitally. For instance, WeChat is a super-app with countless features including payment, so on Chinese New Year and other relevant holidays, she would send her nieces and nephews digital red envelopes, which can be used for digital payments. She also celebrates with friends locally, which makes up for the absence of her immediate family. She claims that when speaking with her parents, “there isn’t necessarily a language barrier; it’s more like sort of a speech barrier in that it’s hard to express myself since they don’t understand what I do for my job, which takes up most of my day.” She tends to be the conversation starter, and the conversation tends to lean towards the gossips and events in China more, which she loves to hear about. Although I can see the shifts of facial expressions between joy and sadness, her tone, for the most part, remained the same throughout our conversation, which was very different from my first interview. When asked why, she claims that she has fully accepted and adapted to this style of virtual communication and lifestyle after several decades despite the challenges and frustrations.

## Design Opportunities
“There’s something irreplaceable about those quiet, unspoken moments, like being able to hold her hand, share a hug after a tough day, or even the little things, like walking together or sitting in the same room while doing separate activities.” No app or technology can fully replicate the closeness and warmth of just being with someone physically, but we can always strive to enhance the experience with features that address the more minor frustrations.

- A “Countdown to Reunion” feature that allows users to select a future date and see a countdown of the days leading up to it

When asked about ways to cope with the distance, the first interviewee said one thing that helped was “planning their next visit. Even though we couldn’t be together right away, having something to look forward to gave us hope and helped us push through the tough times.” Reunion is something people typically look forward to, so visibly seeing it can be motivating at times. Of course, it may also be tough if that time is very long, so this feature should be able to be turned off and on.

- A “Memory Recap” feature that would send an album monthly of the images sent the same month last year

“Photos have been very helpful because we’re both looking at the same thing and are vicariously in that shared moment although we’re thousands of miles apart.” Both interviewees emphasized the importance of photos, whether it’s the ability to experience a missed event secondhand or to revisit and reminisce about moments in the past. Old photos make excellent conversation starters and mood lifters, as each one tells a story and can evoke happy memories.

- A subtle mood sharing feature for users to share their current emotional state using emojis

One thing everyone in a long distance relationship, whether it’s romantic, familial, or platonic, wants to know is how the other person is feeling or what they’re doing. This doesn’t have to be done through a video call or a text message; simply setting an emoji (perhaps next to your name or someone near the header) would let someone else know what you’re up to without involving any words. Of course, one may want to express different feeling to different people so these emojis should be unique to each person/group.

- A collapsible status section that indicates whether the other person is busy or available and shows the time of other person if residing in different time zones

One thought is to have the user toggle busy and available themselves, which would be shown to the other person. Another thought is taking advantage of calendar apps that most people use (e.g. Google Calendar) and leveraging that to determine availability. There could be an option to opt in to be notified when both people are available. Both interviewees expressed challenges revolving around differing time zones and how it may be difficult to communicate with someone when you aren’t aware of their availability. Both interviewees also mentioned needing to consider the other person’s time zone to gauge whether it’s a good time to send a message as to not disrupt what they’re doing.

- A shared timeline where people can mark important moments in life

"I feel especially disconnected when I discover joyful or sad news only after it’s happened either by word of mouth or seeing a late post on WeChat moments. I sometimes wish I’d known about these events, so I could at least express my feelings digitally." Knowing important dates can greatly help with long distance relationships, whether it’s a couples’ anniversary, a joyful family event, or even an important hospital visit. This ties back to the mood sharing feature, where in long distance relationships, people want to know how the other person is feeling or what they’re doing.